# NetworkTool
If you look at the code in this repo you are probably going to have a lot of questions.  
Things like "If he knows how to define a function why didn't he use them to actually remove repetitive code?", "Why not just use nmap?" and "Why the hell would you upload this?".  
These are all valid questions and so I will endeavour to answer them for you.


I uploaded this code to GitHub shortly after creating my account in mid 2017. At this point I was in my last year of highschool and I was just at the beginning of my journey in the world of technology. The TBC_Network_Tool_rewrite.py that you see here is my 2017 rewrite/iteration on a program I wrote in 2016 that allowed me to ping a list of IP addresses to see if a computer would respond. This program can be seen in network_ping() and shows my beginnings as a programer. I only had a vague idea of what a function was at the time, didn't really understand their use case and most definitely didn't know how to pass parameters to them. I wrote the program at the time because my friends and I were messing around on our schools intranet and I wanted to see what IPs might have computers behind them. All my friends at the time were either manually pinging addresses or finding them using tools like Angry IP. At the time I thought of myself of a bit of a coder because I had recently completed a CodeAcademy course on Python (this was when CodeAcademy was still completely free) and thought using tools like Angry IP was cheating (I used to call me friends "script kiddies" when I saw them using it). So I decided to write the initial version of NetworkTool. Writing it gave me a crash course in basic networking and I think is part of the reason why I am so comfortable with networking concepts to this day (that and 3 years of working with AWS infrastructure). In early 2017 I did the "rewrite" that you see today that added in extra features like port scanning and common ports. You can see some of my improvements as a programer in these extra features (I actually created a ping() function to remove duplicate code and learnt what a dictionary was). It was around this time that a couple of my friends went too far with the intranet shenanigans and got themselves suspended from school for a week. I thankfully was not involved because I was too focused on improving NetworkTool to actually do anything with the hosts or open ports that I found. However, it did put a dampener on things so I stopped working on the program. I like to think if this hadn't happened I would have learnt about and added more advanced networking concepts like TCP stealth scans. When I created my GitHub account in mid 2017 I was quite proud of the work I had done on NetworkTool so I decided to upload it for others to see.


So now that you have some context around why I made NetworkTool you may ask "Why do you still keep this repo up? People might think you don't know how to program?". Well there are two reasons I love this repo. The first is that it literally shows my development as a programer. From the duplicate mess that is network_ping() to the slightly less duplicated mess in socket_scan() I can see my progression and where I've learnt new concepts which I think is a beautiful thing. Secondly, this program reminds me of a time when I programmed purely for the joy of it. There were perfectly good tools out there that I could have used but instead I decided to write my own program because I wanted to be a better programmer. So some days when I come home from work or uni and I contemplate why I decided to work in the technology industry I look at NetworkTool and I am reminded of a time when my friends and I would goof off at school, and I programmed because I thought is was the coolest thing ever and I wanted to learn everything about it. It makes me aspire to be like that again and encourages me to keep growing and learning as a person.